Trace level retention filters docs (#28349)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/tracing/trace_pipeline/trace_retention.md

## Retention filters

> After spans have been ingested, some are kept for 15 days according to the retention filters are set up on your account:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After spans have been ingested, some are kept for 15 days according to the retention filters that are set up on your account:
```

> 1. The **[Intelligent Retention Filter](#datadog-intelligent-retention-filter)** retains spans for every environment, service, operation, and resource for different latency distributions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. The **[Intelligent Retention Filter](#datadog-intelligent-retention-filter)** retains spans for every environment, service, operation, and resource across different latency distributions.
```

**Note**: The order of the retention filter list changes indexing behavior. If a span matches a retention filter early in the list, the span is either kept or dropped. Any matching custom retention filter lower on the list does not catch the already-processed span.

The `Spans Indexed` column for each retention filter is powered by the `datadog.estimated_usage.apm.indexed_spans` metric, which you can use to track your indexed span usage. For more information, read [Usage Metrics][2], or explore the [out-of-the-box usage dashboard][4] available in your account.

<div class="alert alert-info"><strong>Note</strong>: Retention filters do not affect what traces are collected by the Agent and sent to Datadog ("ingested"). To control ingestion, use dedicated <a href="/tracing/trace_pipeline/ingestion_controls/">ingestion controls</a>.</div>

> ### Default retention filters

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Retention filter types

There are two types of retention filters:

1. **Span-level retention filters** - Index only the specific spans that match your filter criteria.
2. **Trace-level retention filters** - Index entire traces that contain spans matching your filter criteria, making the complete traces searchable in Trace Queries.

| Feature | Standard retention filters | Trace-level retention filters |
| ------- | ------------------------- | ----------------------------- |
| **Configuration** | Span query + Span retention rate | Span query + Span retention rate + Trace retention rate |
| **What is indexed** | Only spans targeted by the query | All spans belonging to traces that contain spans matching the query |
| **Where it is queryable** | Span Explorer | Span Explorer and Trace Queries |

### Default retention filters
```

I think a comparison of span-level vs. trace-level retention filters could be helpful for users. What do you think about this new section?

> The following retention filters are enabled by default to ensure that you keep visibility over all of your services and endpoints, as well as errors and high-latency traces: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following retention filters are enabled by default: 
```

- The `Error Default` retention filter indexes error spans with `status:error`. The retention rate and the query are configurable. For example, to capture production errors, set the query to `status:error, env:production`. Disable the retention filter if you do not want to capture the errors by default.
- The `Application Security Monitoring Default` retention filter is enabled if you are using [Application Security Management][16]. It ensures the retention of all spans in traces that have been identified as having an application security impact (an attack attempt).
- The `Synthetics Default` retention filter is enabled if you are using Synthetic Monitoring. It ensures that traces generated from synthetic API and browser tests remain available by default. See [Synthetic APM][15] for more information, including how to correlate traces with synthetic tests.

> - The `Dynamic Instrumentation Default` retention filter is enabled if you are using [Dynamic Instrumentation][17]. It ensures spans created dynamically via Dynamic instrumentation remain available in the long term by default.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The `Dynamic Instrumentation Default` retention filter is enabled if you are using [Dynamic Instrumentation][17]. It ensures spans created dynamically with Dynamic instrumentation remain available in the long term by default.
```
Making Vale happy.

### Create your own retention filter

Create custom retention filters to retain specific trace data for 15 days. Use any span tag or attribute in the filter query to target and retain the spans that matter the most to your business. 

For example, you can create filters to keep all traces for:

- Credit card transactions over $100 with a `@transaction_amount:>100` filter
- Checkout operation spans that have a duration longer than 2 seconds on the production environment: `resource_name:"GET /checkout" @duration:>2s env:prod`

> - Specific versions of an online delivery service application: `service:delivery-api @version:v2.0`

Reviewer: These examples are helpful!

> When a span is indexed, you can see and query it in [Trace Explorer][7], dashboards, and monitors for 15 days. When clicking an indexed span from the trace explorer, you will always be able to visualize the **complete trace** it is a part of, in a flamegraph or waterfall view. However, note that other spans in that visualization might not be independently searchable in the Trace Explorer unless you also configured a _trace retention rate_ to ensure that all spans from a trace are indexed or other spans are retained by other retention filters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you index a span using a retention filter:

- **Searchability**: The indexed span can be found in Trace Explorer, dashboards, and monitored for 15 days.

- **Visualization context**: When you click on any indexed span in the Trace Explorer, you always see its complete trace context (all parent and child spans) in flame graph or waterfall view, regardless of whether those other spans were indexed.

- **Search context**: Although you can visualize a complete trace, only the spans that were specifically indexed by retention filters will be searchable in the Trace Explorer.
```

What do you think about breaking this content up a bit? I think this is a bit clearer to read and digest.

{{< img src="tracing/trace_indexing_and_ingestion/retention_filters/retention_filter_create.png" style="width:90%;" alt="Create Retention Filter">}}

To create a retention filter:

> 1. Define the **Retention Query** to target the spans you wish to retain. Use any span or attribute to filter spans, as you would write a query in the [Trace Explorer][7].
> 2. Set a **Span rate** to define the percentage of spans matching this query that should be indexed.
> 3. Optionally, Set a **Trace rate** to define the percentage of full traces associated with the spans that should be indexed. This will ensure that other spans from traces associated with the span targeted by the retention query are also indexed, so that the indexed data is queriable in [Trace Queries][11]. 
> 4. Name the filter.
> 5. Save the new filter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Go to [**APM** > **Retention Filters**][18].
1. Click **Add Retention Filter**.
1. Define the **Retention Query** to target the spans you wish to retain. Use any span or attribute to filter spans, as you would write a query in the [Trace Explorer][7].
1. Set a **Span rate** to define the percentage of spans matching this query that should be indexed.
1. Optionally, set a **Trace rate** to define the percentage of full traces associated with the spans that should be indexed. This ensures that other spans from traces associated with the span targeted by the retention query are also indexed, so that the indexed data is queryable in [Trace Queries][11]. 
1. Set a name for the filter.
1. Click **Add Filter** to save the filter.
```
Added more context about where a user does this. Note I added the new reference link further down.

> **Note**: Configuring a trace rate might increase significantly your indexed spans usage. For instance, if you configure a retention filter to index spans from `service:my-service`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<div class="alert alert-danger">Configuring a trace rate can significantly increase your indexed spans usage.</div>

For example, if you configure a retention filter to index spans from `service:my-service`:
```
I think this could be worth bringing extra attention to with a danger alert box.

> - Configuring a span rate of `100%` will ensure that all spans matching `service:my-service` will get indexed.
> - Configuring a trace rate of `50%` will ensure that all spans from all traces with a span from `service:my-service` will get indexed. Assuming traces have 100 spans in average and 5 spans from `service:my-service`, configuring a trace rate will index the remaining 95 spans of the trace, for the trace rate percentage being configured.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Configuring a span rate of `100%` ensures that all spans matching `service:my-service` are indexed.
- Configuring a trace rate of `50%` ensures that all spans from all traces with a span from `service:my-service` are indexed. Assuming traces have 100 spans in average and 5 spans from `service:my-service`, configuring a trace rate indexes the remaining 95 spans of the trace, for the trace rate percentage being configured.
```
Tense fixes flagged by Vale.

When you create a new filter or edit the retention rate of an existing filter, Datadog displays an estimate of the percentage change in global indexing volume.

Filters are retained in a serial order. If you have an upstream filter that retains spans with the `resource:POST /hello_world` tag, those spans do not show up in the **Edit** window of a downstream filter that searches for spans with the same tag because they have been retained by the upstream filter.

## Trace search and analytics on indexed spans

### In the Trace Explorer, dashboards, and notebooks

By default, spans indexed by custom retention filters **and** the intelligent retention filter are included in the Trace Explorer [aggregated views][6] (timeseries, toplist, table), as well as in dashboards and notebook queries.

> Spans indexed by custom retention filters **without a trace rate**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Is this needed? Seems like the thought was cut off.

[13]: /tracing/trace_explorer/
[14]: /monitors/types/apm/?tab=traceanalytics
[15]: /synthetics/apm/
[16]: /security/application_security/

> [17]: /dynamic_instrumentation/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[17]: /dynamic_instrumentation/
[18]: https://app.datadoghq.com/apm/traces/retention-filters
```
This is connected to my suggestion on line 114.
